DEPCONFUSION(7)           Miscellaneous Information Manual          DEPCONFUSION(7)

NAME
       depconfusion - understand dependency confusion (substitution) attacks
       and how to close the registry race

DESCRIPTION
       Dependency confusion is not a typo.  It is a resolution bug in how
       organizations mix private packages with public registries.

       In 2021, researcher Alex Birsan demonstrated that publishing a
       public package with the same name as an internal package — often
       at a higher version — could win the install race inside Apple,
       Microsoft, Tesla, and dozens of other build systems.  The bug
       bounty payouts were large because the blast radius was CI: the
       identity that installs packages often holds deploy keys, cloud
       credentials, and source access.

       This article explains the resolution mental model, how to
       reproduce the race locally without touching public npm, and the
       concrete mitigations that actually work.

   The vulnerability in one paragraph
       Many package managers consult more than one registry.  When an
       internal package @org/auth-lib exists only on a private registry,
       but an attacker publishes @org/auth-lib@999.0.0 on the public
       registry, some resolver configurations prefer the higher public
       version.  The build machine then downloads and executes the
       attacker's postinstall as the CI user.

       Typosquatting tricks humans.  Dependency confusion tricks the
       resolver.  Both end in install-time code execution; the defenses
       differ.

   Resolution mental model
       Draw three boxes and label the trust edges:

       Developer / CI
              Runs npm install / pip install / go get with whatever
              .npmrc, pip.conf, or GOPROXY it inherited.

       Private registry
              Holds @techcorp/* packages that never should resolve from
              the public internet.

       Public registry
              npmjs.com, PyPI, etc.  Anyone can publish names that look
              internal if the scope or name is not reserved.

       Confusion happens when the client's config says "for scope
       @techcorp, use registry X" incorrectly, or when an unscoped
       internal name is also fetchable from a public index with a
       higher version.

       Classic misconfiguration
              .npmrc points @techcorp to a public or attacker-controlled
              host, or omits scope routing entirely so the public
              registry is consulted first.

       Version race
              Attacker publishes 999.999.999.  Naive "highest version
              wins" logic selects it over 1.4.2 on the private registry.

       Leakage of names
              Internal package names leak via public repos, JS bundles,
              error pages, job ads, and package.json screenshots.  Once
              the name is known, the public package can be reserved.

   Local reproduction (safe pattern)
       Do not publish real confusion packages to public npm to "test."
       Reproduce with a local registry and a misconfigured .npmrc.

       Pattern used in SCAS Scenario 02:

       1. Pack a malicious tarball
              Build @techcorp/auth-lib@999.999.999 as a .tgz with a
              postinstall that only beacons when TESTBENCH_MODE=enabled
              and only to localhost.

       2. Start a minimal registry on localhost
              A small registry-server.js on port 4874 that serves the
              tarball for the scoped name.

       3. Misconfigure the victim app
              corporate-app/.npmrc sets:

                  @techcorp:registry=http://localhost:4874/

              That line is the bug.  In a healthy enterprise setup,
              @techcorp would point at the internal Artifactory / Verdaccio
              / GitHub Packages endpoint, not an untrusted host.

       4. Install and observe
                  $ export TESTBENCH_MODE=enabled
                  $ cd corporate-app
                  $ npm install
                  $ curl -s http://localhost:4874/…   # or your mock

              The authentic Birsan-style race is now local: resolver
              followed the scope map to attacker infrastructure.

   Detection signals that matter
       Watch for these in SIEM / package firewalls:

       •  First-seen package name matching internal scope appearing on
          a public registry (Socket, deps.dev, or your own crawler).

       •  Version jumps to absurd majors (999.x) for internal packages.

       •  CI install resolving from an unexpected registry host (log
          npm config get registry and scoped registries in build logs).

       •  postinstall / install scripts on packages that previously had
          none.

       Sample IOC shape
              {"event":"registry_resolve","package":"@techcorp/auth-lib",
               "version":"999.999.999","registry":"localhost:4874"}

   Mitigations that close the race
       Scope routing done right
              Every internal scope must map explicitly to the private
              registry.  Verify with:

                  $ npm config get @techcorp:registry

              Fail the build if the value is not in an allowlist.

       Reserve public names
              Publish empty placeholder packages (or use npm's org
              protection features) for every internal name that could
              leak.  Cheap insurance.

       Disable public fallback for private scopes
              Prefer package firewalls / proxies that never ask the
              public registry for @techcorp/*.

       Pin and lock
              package-lock.json / npm ci remove "surprise highest
              version" behavior for reproducible installs.  Still
              verify the lockfile was not poisoned (see lockfile
              manipulation labs).

       Block install scripts in CI
              ignore-scripts in CI plus a reviewed allowlist for the
              few packages that truly need native builds.

       OIDC publishing and short-lived tokens
              Reduce the value of a stolen classic npm token so a
              confusion foothold cannot easily republish your other
              packages.

       Network egress controls
              CI runners that cannot reach arbitrary registries shrink
              the attacker's delivery options.

   Comparison: typosquat vs confusion
       Typosquat
              Victim types wrong name → public malicious package.
              Defense: name proximity alerts, careful review, lockfiles.

       Confusion
              Victim types correct internal name → resolver fetches
              public substitute.  Defense: scope routing, name
              reservation, private-only resolution, firewall.

       Both
              Often deliver the same payload class: install-time script
              with credential harvest.  Blue-team DETECT.md blocks can
              share postinstall and beacon sections.

   Interview / review checklist
       When assessing an organization's npm/PyPI posture, ask:

       1. Where is the authoritative .npmrc / pip index for CI defined?
       2. Can a developer override registry with a user-level config?
       3. Are internal package names reserved on public registries?
       4. Do builds use npm ci with committed lockfiles?
       5. Are install scripts allowed in CI by default?
       6. Who can publish to the private registry, and with what token
          lifetime?

       Any "we are not sure" is a finding.

NOTES
       •  Dependency confusion is a configuration and resolution
          problem first, a malware problem second.

       •  Reproducing against a local registry teaches more than reading
          the Birsan write-up alone — you feel how a single .npmrc line
          rewires trust.

       •  Mitigations stack: scope routing + name reservation + lockfiles
          + ignore-scripts + egress controls.  Pick at least three.

SEE ALSO
       supplychain(7), sbomtrust(7), npm(1), npm-config(1)

       Alex Birsan — Dependency Confusion (2021):
       ⟨https://medium.com/@alex.birsan/dependency-confusion-4a5d60fec610⟩

       SCAS Scenario 02:
       ⟨https://github.com/RAJANAGORI/supply-chain-attack-simulator/tree/main/scenarios/02-dependency-confusion⟩

COLOPHON
       This page describes dependency confusion attacks, local safe
       reproduction, and defenses.  Pair with supplychain(7) for lab
       containment patterns and sbomtrust(7) for inventory integrity.
